## Adult Learners 

1) Adult learners often have a wealth of life experience that can be tapped by an effective instructor. They often are self-directed and autonomous and may exhibit the need to be independent and exercise control. 
    - Instructors should help learners integrate new ideas with what they already know to ensure they keep and use the new information and also recognize learners' need to control pace and start/stop time.
    - The average aviation learner is 30 years old. This means the aviation instructor needs to be versed in the needs of adult learners.
        - Adults as learners posses the following characteristics:
            - Adults who are **motivated** to seek out a learning experience do so primarily because they have a use for the knowledge or skill being sought. Learning is a means to an end, not an end in itself. 
            - Adults seek out learning experiences in order to cope with specific life-changing events, such as marriage, (child), divorce, or a new job. They are ready to learn when they assume new roles 
            - Adult learners are autonomous and self-directed; they need to be independent and exercise control. Adults have accumulated a foundation of life experiences and knowledge and draw upon them in training.
            - Adults are goal oriented
            - Adults are relevancy oriented. Their time perspective changes from one of postponed knowledge application to immediate application.
            - Adults are practical, focusing on aspects of a lesson most useful to them in their work.
            - As do all learners, adults need to be shown respect.
            - The need to increase or maintain a sense of self-esteem is a strong secondary _(or in my opinon primary)_ motivator for adult learners.
            - Adults want to solve problems and apply new knowledge immediately.
        - Instructors should: 
            - Provide a training syllabus that is organized with clearly defined course objectives.
            - Help learners integrate new ideas with what they already know to ensure they keep and use the new information
            - Assume responsibility only for their own expectations, not for those of learners. It's important to clarify and articulate all learner expectations early on.
                - Recognize the learner's need to congtrol pace and start/stop time
                - Take advantage of the adult preference to self-direct and self-design learning projects by giving the learner frequent scenario-based training (SBT) opportunities.
                - Remember that self-direction does not mean isolation. Studies of self-directed learning indicate self-directed projects involve other people as resources, guides, etc.
                - Use books, programmed instruction, and computers which are popular with adult learners.
            - Refrain from 'spoon feeding' the learner.
            - Set a cooperative learning climate.
            - Create opportunities for mutual planning.
        - Learners  want the learning experience to be problem-oriented and personalized
        - Instructors must be accepting of the learner's need for self-direction and personal responsibility. 
        