## Effective Communication

1) Basic elements of communication are essential for effective interaction and understanding.
    - **Effective communication**: _**depends on how closely the idea transmitted by the sender matches the interpretation of the receiver.**_
        - The process of communication is composed of three dynamically interrelated elements:
            - **A Source** _(sender, speaker, or instructor)_
            - **The symbols used in composing and transmitting the message** _(e.g. words or acronyms)_
            - **The Receiver** _(listener, reader, or learner)_
        - Communication takes place when one person transmits ideas or feelings to another person or to a group of people. 
            - The effectiveness of communication is measured by the similarity between the idea transmitted and the idea received.
            - Effective communication has taken place when, and only when, the receivers react with understanding and change their behavior accordingly.
            - Instruction has taken place when a procedure has been explained and the desired learner response has occurred.
        - The effectiveness of persons acting in their role of communicators is related to at least three basic factors.
            - First, **Their ability to select symbols that are meaningful to the listener**
            - Second, **Communicators consciously or unconsciously reveal attitudes toward themselves, toward the ideas they are trying to transmit, and toward the receivers**. _Thus to communicate effectively, instructors must reveal a positive attitude while delivering their message_.
            - Third, **To be more likely to communicate effectively, communicators should speak or write from a broad background of accurate, up-to-date, and stimulating material**.
    - **Symbols** _**are oral and visual codes used to communicate**_.
        - Ideas are communicated _only when symbols are combined into meaningful wholes (e.g. sentences, paragraphs, chapters, etc)_
        - Symbols are perceived through these sensory channels: _**visual, auditory, or kinesthetic (touching, doing, etc)**_
            - Instructors will be more successful in gaining and retaining learner attention _by using a variety of these channels_.
            - The feedback an instructor gets from a learner needs to be monitored constantly in order to modify the symbols, as required, to optimize communication
    - To understand the process of communication, three characteristics of receivers must be understood.
        - First, _they exercise their ability to question and comprehend the ideas that have been transmitted._ _(socratic method-esque)_
        - Second, _**the receiver's attitude may be one of resistance, willingness, or of passive neutrality. Communicators must gain the receiver's attention and then retain it**_
        - Third, the receiver's background, experience, and education frame the target at which communications must aim.

2) **Barriers to effective communication hinder learning**, _as language and its delivery shape our understanding and may sometimes lead to misinterpretation_.
    - Probably the greatest single barrier to effective communication is _the lack of a common core of experience between communicator and receiver_.
        - A receiver's past experience with the words and things to which they refer determine how the receiver responds to what the communicator says.
            - **A communicator's words cannot communicate the desired meaning to another person unless the listener or reader has had some experience with the objects or concepts to which these words refer**. 
            - In order for communication to be effective, _the learner's understanding of the meaning of the words and symbols needs to be the same as the instructor's understanding and desired thought_. 
        - **Confusion between the symbol (word or sign) and the symbolized object results when a word is confused with what it is meant to represent**.
            - _Words and symbols do not always represent the same thing to each person_
            - **To communicate effectively, speakers and instructors should be aware of these differences and choose words or symbols that represent what is intended**
        - **Overuse of abstractions should be avoided**
            - **Concrete words** refer to objects that human beings can relate directly to their own experiences.
            - **Abstract words** stand for ideas that cannot be directly experienced or things that do not call forth specific mental images. _(e.g. Bernouli's Principle)_
                - _Abstractions thus serve as shorthand symbols that sum up large areas of experience (e.g. acronyms, etc)_
                - _Abstract words may not evoke in the listener's mind the specific items of experience the communicator intends_
            - By using concrete words, the communicator narrows (and gains better control of) the image being produced in the minds of the listeners and readers

3) **External Factors** may prevent a process or activity from being carried out properly and are composed of factors outside the control of the instructor yet may be overcome.
    - **Physiological external factors**: are any biological problem that may inhibit reception.
        - EXAMPLE: Hearing loss, injury, or physical illness.
    - **Environmental external factors**: are caused by external physical conditions
        - EXAMPLE: Aircraft noise or vibration or lighting conditions.
    - **Psychological external factors**: are a product of how the instructor and learner feel at the time the communication process is occurring.
        - EXAMPLE: If either the instructor or learner is not committed to the communication process, communication is impaired.
    - The instructor must recognize when external factors are present and adapt the presentation to allow the learner to be more receptive to new ideas.

4) **Developing communication skills**
    - Communication skills need to be developed; they do not occur automatically. Instructional communication often begins with roleplaying during training to be an instructor, continues during the actual instruction, and is enhanced by additional training.
        - **Roleplaying**:
            - In roleplaying, the learner is provided with a general description of a situation and applies a new skill or knowledge to perform the role. 
                - _A flight instructor applicant can fly with an instructor playing a learner._ The instructor can then duplicate learner responses. The CFI applicant can use this exercise to find a comfortable communication style.
            - **Instructional Communication**
                - Instruction takes place when an instructor explains a procedure and determines the learner exhibits the desired response.
                    - An instructor giving a presentation on a well-known subject allows the learner to perform better in early lessons.
                    - Instructors should use personal experience to make lessons more valuable. 
            - **Listening** _is one way to become better acquainted with learners._ There are several techniques to become a better listener.
                - Listening can be described as _hearing with comprehension_.
                - Some instructor tools to aid listening are _thinking before answering, not interrupting, concentrating, and watching nonverbal behaviors_
                - Learners and instructors can become better listeners by avoiding daydreaming, taking notes, and being emotionally calm
            - **Questioning** can determine how well a learner has been taught
                - _Using focused questions allows an instructor to concentrate on a desired area_.
                - Open-ended questions are designed to encourage full, meaningful answers _(and maybe catch a student in some bad thought patterns if they opine too much)_
                - Closed-ended questions often only test rote knowledge.
                