## Structure of Atmosphere 

### Air is a Fluid:
- Both Liquids and Gasses (like the mix of gasses in the atmosphere)
- Fluids generally do not resist deformation when even the smallest stress is applied, or they resist it only slightly. We call this slight resistance viscosity. Fluids also have the ability to flow. Just as a liquid flows and fills a container, air will expand to fill the available volume of its container. 

### Viscosity 
- Viscosity is the property of a fluid that causes it to resist flowing. The way individual molecules of the fluid tend to adhere, or stick, to each other determines how much a fluid resists flow. _High-viscosity fluids are “thick” and resist flow; low-viscosity fluids are “thin” and flow easily. Air has a low viscosity and flows easily._
- A great illustration of viscosity is two ramps of the same material, oil poured down one ramp and water down the other. The oil will flow much more slowly than the water.
- Although it's difficult to calculate the viscosity of air, it is viscous, because it is a fluid, so it does resist flow around any object to some extent. 

### Friction
- Another factor at work when a fluid flows over or around an object is called friction. Friction is the resistance that one surface or object encounters when moving over another. Friction exists between any two materials that contact each other.
- To illustrate with the 2 ramp analogy, this time we have 2 ramps of _different surfaces_ one is coarse and bumpy, the other is flat and smooth. The coarse and bumpy ramp will exhibit much more friction than the smooth flat surface. 
- Any surface, no matter how smooth it appears in the macroscopic, microscopically will be disparate molecules and structures and will exert friction on any fluid flowing across them. 
- **Wing Friction Effects**: Molecules of air pass over the surface of the wing and actually adhere (stick, or cling) to the surface because of friction. Air molecules near the surface of the wing resist motion and have a relative velocity near zero. The roughness of the surface impedes their motion. The layer of molecules that adhere to the wing surface is referred to as the _boundary layer_. 
- **Wing Friction + Air Viscosity Drag**: Once the boundary layer of the air adheres to the wing by friction, further resistance to the airflow is caused by the viscosity, the tendency of the air to stick to itself. When these two forces act together to resist airflow over a wing, it is called _drag_.

### Pressure
- Pressure is the force applied in a perpendicular direction to the surface of an object. Often, pressure is measured in pounds of force exerted per square inch of an object, or PSI. An object completely immersed in a fluid will feel pressure uniformly around the entire surface of the object. If the pressure on one surface of the object becomes less than the pressure exerted on the other surfaces, the object will move in the direction of the lower pressure.

### Atmospheric Pressure
-  It's one of the basic factors in weather changes, helps to lift an aircraft, and actuates some of the important flight instruments. These instruments are the _**altimeter**_, _**airspeed indicator**_, _**vertical speed indicator**_, and _**manifold pressure gauge**_.
- Air is light, but it has mass, and b/c of earth's gravity, has the force of _weight_. Since air is a fluid substance, this force is exerted equally in all directions. Its effect on bodies within the air is called pressure. Under standard conditions at sea level, the average pressure exerted by the weight of the atmosphere is approximately 14.70 pounds per square inch (psi) of surface, or 1,013.2 millibars (mb).
- **Standard Atmosphere**: The standard atmosphere _**at sea level**_ is a surface temperature of _**59°F**_ or _**15°C**_ and a surface pressure of _**29.92"Hg (inches of mercury)**_ or _**1,013.2mb**_.
- **Standard Temperature Lapse Rate**: When the temperature decreases at the rate of approximately _**3.5°F**_ or _**2°C**_ _**per thousand feet**_ up to 36,000 feet, which is approximately –65 °F or –55 °C. Above this point, the temperature is considered constant up to 80,000 feet.
- **Standard Pressure Lapse Reate**: When pressure decreases at a rate of approximately _**1"Hg**_ _**per 1,000 feet of altitude gain**_ up to about 10,000 feet where the decrease gradually gets smaller as altitude increases.
- **Pressure Altitude**: The height above a standard datum plane (SDP), which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92"Hg (1,013.2mb) as measured by a barometer (altimeter is a sensitive barometer). _**If the altimeter is set for 29.92"Hg SDP, the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude.**_ Pressure Altitude is important as a basis for determining airplane performance, as well as for assigning flight levels to airplanes operating at or above 18,000 feet.
- **Density Altitude**: The vertical distance above sea level in the standard atmosphere at which a given density is to be found. _**Density altitude is pressure altitude corrected for nonstandard temperature.**_ _The density of air has significant effects on the aircraft’s performance because **as air becomes less dense, it reduces:**_
    - **Power because the engine takes in less air**
    - **Thrust because a propeller is less efficient in thin air**
    - **Lift because the thin air exerts less force on the airfoils**
- **Density Altitude (continued)**: Density altitude is determined by **first finding pressure altitude**, and **then correcting this altitude for nonstandard temperature variations**.
- _**Effect of Pressure on Density**_: When air is compressed, a greater amount of air can occupy a given volume. Conversely, when pressure on a given volume of air is decreased, the air expands and occupies a greater space. At a lower pressure, the original column of air contains a smaller mass of air. The density is decreased because density is directly proportional to pressure. If the pressure is doubled, the density is doubled; if the pressure is lowered, the density is lowered. This statement is true only at a constant temperature.
- _**Effect of Temperature on Density**_: _**Increasing the temperature of a substance decreases its density**_. Conversely, _**decreasing the temperature increases the density**_. Thus, the _**density of air varies inversely with temperature**_. This statement is true only at a constant pressure.
- _**Effect of Humidity (Water Vapor) on Density**_: Water vapor is lighter than air; consequently, moist air is lighter than dry air. Therefore, **as the water content of the air increases, the air becomes less dense, increasing density altitude and decreasing performance.** It is lightest or least dense when, in a given set of conditions, it contains the maximum amount of water vapor. Humidity, also called relative humidity, refers to the amount of water vapor contained in the atmosphere and is expressed as a percentage of the maximum amount of water vapor the air can hold. This amount varies with temperature. _**Warm air holds more water vapor, while cold air holds less. Perfectly dry air that contains no water vapor has a relative humidity of zero percent, while saturated air, which cannot hold any more water vapor, has a relative humidity of 100 percent**_. Humidity alone is usually not considered an important factor in calculating density altitude and aircraft performance, but it is a contributing factor. _**As temperature increases, the air can hold greater amounts of water vapor.**_ In any case, **the effects of humidity on density altitude include a decrease in overall performance in high humidity conditions.**