## Aviation Instructor Responsibilities 

1) The job of aviation instruction is **to transfer knowledge**. Aviation instructors **help learners to meet or exceed established standards and have five main responsibilities**,
listed in items 2 through 6 below
2) **Helping Learners** maintain high levels of _motivation_ is an _intrinsically pleasurable experience that creates a positive feedback loop for the instructor_
    - **Learning should be interesting**. Though learners may be drawn to less difficult tasks, they ultimately **devote more effort to activities that bring rewards**
        - The **use of standards**, and **measurement against standards**, is key to helping learners learn.
        - **Knowing the objective of each period of instruction gives meaning and provides interest to learner and instructor**
3) **Providing adequate instruction** **_requires flexibility from the instructor**_.
    - **Instructors should analyze the __learner's personality, thinking, and ability_ to tailor their teaching technique to the learner**
        - Remain open-minded and seek other resources and information to develop enhanced teaching ability.
4) Training to **established standards of performance** _ensures consistency, safety, and competency for an instructor demanding adequate standards of performance_
    - It ensures that these demands are _suitably modified to apply to the learner's experience and stage of development as a pilot_.
        - In evaluating learner demonstrations of piloting ability, **it is important for the flight instructor to keep the learner informed of progress**. 
            -EXAMPLE: This may be done as each procedure/maneuver is completed or summarized during postflight critiques
5) **Emphasizing the positive** is expressed through instructor conduct and the attitudes displayed. It's essential because **positive instruction results in positive learning** Recall from [Study Unit 2, Subunit 3](../2-Learning/2.3-Perceptions-and-Insight.md) how negative self-concept inhibits the perceptual process.
    - Instructors must strive to prevent negative feelings from undermining the instructional process
        - **The safety practices aviation instructors emphasize have a long-lasting effect on learners**
        - <u>**Emphasizing safety by example is one of the best actions an instructor can take to ensure aviation safety**</u>
    - In flight instruction, an effective positive approach will point out the pleasurable features of flying before the unpleasant possibilities are discussed.
        - **EXAMPLE of a _positive_ first flight lesson**:
            - A preflight inspection familiarizing the learner with the airplane and its components
            - A perfectly normal flight to a nearby airport and back
                - The instructor calls the learner's attention to how easy the trip was in comparison with other ways to travel and the fact that no critical incidents were encountered or expected
        - **EXAMPLE of a _negative_ first flight lesson**:
            - An exhaustive indoctrination on preflight procedures with emphasis on the potential for disastrous mechanical failures in flight.
            - Instructions on the dangers of taxiing an airplane too fast
            - A series of stalls with emphasis on the difficulties in recovering from them (the side effect of this performance is likely to be airsickness)
            - A series of simulated forced landings stating that every pilot should always be prepared to cope with engine failure
6) **Minimizing Learner Frustrations** is a fundamental instructor responsibility. It can be achieved through key strategies listed below, with learning encouragement as a top priority
    - **Motivate Learners**
        - More can be gained from _wanting to learn_ than from being forced to learn
        - Too often, learners do not realize how a particular lesson or course can help them reach an important goal.
        - **When learners can see the benefits and purpose of the lesson or course, their enjoyment _and efforts_ increase**
    - **Keep Learners Informed**
        - Learners _feel insecure when they do not know what is expected of them or what is going to happen to them_
        - Instructors can minimize feelings of insecurity by telling learners what is expected of them and what they can expect in return.
        - Instructors keep learners informed in various ways, including giving them an overview of the course, keeping them posted on their progress, and giving them adequate notice of exams, assignments, or other reqs
    - **Approach Learners as Individuals**
        - When instructors limit their thinking to a group mentality without considering the individuals who make up that group, their efforts are directed at an average personality that may not fit anyone.
        - Each learner group has its own personality that stems from the characteristics and interactions of its members, **but each individual within the group has a unique personality to constantly be considered**
    - **Give Credit When Due**
        - When learners do something extremely well, they normally expect their abilities and efforts to be noticed. Otherwise, they may become frustrated.
        - Praise or credit from the instructor is usually an ample reward and provides an incentive to do even better. Praise pays dividends in learner effort and achievement when deserved, but when given to freely, it becomes valueless
    - **Criticize Constructively**
        - Although it is important to give praise and credit when deserved, **it is equally important to identify mistakes and failures**. It **does not help** to tell learners they have made errors **and not provide explanations**. 
        - If a learner has made an earnest effort but is told that the work is unsatisfactory, with no other explanation, frustration occurs.
        - **Errors cannot be corrected if they are not identified**, and if they are not identified, they will probably **be perpetuated through faulty practice**. On the other hand, if the learner is briefed on the errors and is told how to correct them, progress can be made
    - **Be Consistent**
        - Learners want to please their instructor. This is the same desire that influences much of the behavior of subordinates toward their superiors in industry and business
        - Naturally, learners have a keen interest in knowing what is required to please the instructor. **If the same thing is acceptable one day and unacceptable the next, the learner becomes confused. The instructor's philosophy and actions must be consistent**.
    - **Admit Errors**
        - No one, including learners, expects an instructor to be perfect. The instructor can win the respect of learners by honestly acknowledging mistakes.
        - If the instructor tries to cover up or bluff, learners are quick to sense it. **Such behavior tends to destroy learner confidence in the instructor**
        - If in doubt about some point, the instructor should admit it. 