## Preparation of a Lesson

1) Whether using a self-developed or commercially available syllabus, the instructor's preparation **begins by determining training _objectives and standards_ before instruction.**

2) Training objectives and completion standards _bookend the learning process defining both the starting point and the expected proficiency level at the end of instruction_
    - **Performance-based objectives** _help define what needs to be done in a given lesson_.
        - Instructor's can shift training focus as the learner develops toward decision-based objectives.
    - **Decision-based objectives** rely on a more _dynamic learning environment where learners develop critical thinking skills_.
    - These two types of objectives (above) apply across all three domains of learning (cognitive, affective, and  psychomotor, discussed in [Study Unit 2.6](../2-Learning/2.6-Domains-of-Learning.md)) and each objective should incorporate the desired level of learning.
        - Instructors should adapt training objectives to a specific level of knowledge or skill. 
        - Defined training objectives must be clear to the learner.
    - The objectives guide the completion standards and include descriptions of the following:
        - **Desired knowledge**
        - **Behavior**
        - **Stated skill in specific terms**
        - **Associated conditions and criteria**
    - _Cognitive and psychomotor completion standards can be straightforward to evaluate_, but the _affective domain standards can be harder to decode (attitudes, beliefs, and values)_

3) **Performance-based objectives** are used to set _measurable_, _reasonable_ standards that describe the required learner performance.
    - They provide a way of stating what performance level is desired of a learner before progressing to the next stage of instruction. 
    - Written objectives are _clear_, _measurable_, and _repeatable_. 
    - These objectives consist of three elements: _description of the skill or behavior_, _conditions_, and _criteria_. **(Note the increasing level of detail/definition)**
        - <span style="color:red;">Description of the skill or behavior</span>: **Desired outcome of training stated in concrete terms that can be measured**.
            - EXAMPLE: "The learner should be able to repeat the steps to a proper engine start"
        - <span style="color:red;">Conditions</span>: **Used to explain the rules under which the skill or behavior is to be demonstrated**.
            - EXAMPLE: "Using an approved airplane checklist and referencing the POH, perform a normal engine start"
        - <span style="color:red;">Criteria</span>: **The standards used to measure the accomplishment of the objective**. The performance-based objectives must fit the desired outcome for a particular lesson, and the _criteria should be stated so that there is no question whether the objective has been met_.
            - EXAMPLE: _"Using an approved airplane checklist and referencing the POH, perform a normal engine start. Engine power should be reduced to below 1000RPM after the engine is engaged, and fuel pump adjustments should be made as required in the POH"_

4) The importance of **Airmen Certification Standards (ACS)** in aviation training curricula lies in their role of providing instructors with **specific performance objectives**.
    - These objectives are based on the standards for the issuance of a particular aviation certificate or rating. 
    - The ACS areas of operation and tasks remain relevant to the current aviation environment.
        - **Content validity** _means that a particular maneuver or procedure required in actual flying_
            - EXAMPLE: _A particular maneuver closely mimics a maneuver required in actual flight, such as the learner pilot being able to recover from a power-off stall._
        - **Criterion validity** _means that the completion standards for the test are reflective of acceptable standards._
            - EXAMPLE: _The completion standards for the test are reflective of acceptable standards in actual flight. Thus the learner exhibits knowledge of all the elements involved in a power-off stall as listed in the ACS_

5) **Decision-based objectives** allow for a more dynamic training environment and are designed to develop pilot judgment and ADM skills. 
    - Combined with traditional task and maneuver training, decision-based objectives facilitate a higher level of learning and application and thus reduce improper pilot decision making and increase overall flight safety. 