## Organization of Material

1) Once a determination of objectives and standards has been made, an instructor must formulate a plan of action to lead learners through the course in a logical manner toward the desired goal. One effective way to organize a lesson is by introduction, development, and conclusion _(A similar pattern to constructing an argumentative paper/essay)_
    - The <u>**Introduction**</u> sets the stage for everything to come. The introduction can be divided into three subparts:
        - **Attention**: The instructor **must gain each learner's attention and focus it on the subject**.
            - EXAMPLE: Stories, video clips, questions, or jokes can be used to gain learner attention. _(Think like a quick personal flight experience story)_
        - **Motivation**: The instructor **should offer specific reasons why they need to learn the material**. This motivation should appeal to each learner personally and accentuate the desire to learn.
            - EXAMPLE: The instructor may talk about where the knowledge in the lesson was or will be applied in real life or remind learners of an upcoming test on the material.
        - **Overview**: Each lesson introduction **should contain an overview that tells the learner(s) what is to be covered during the period**.
            - The overview is presented as a clear, concise presentation of the objective.
    - The <u>**Development**</u> is the main part of the lesson during which the instructor organizes the explanations and demonstration in a manner that helps the learners achieve the desired learning outcomes. 
        - The instructor must logically organize the material to show the relationships of the main points to each other. This is done by developing the main points in one of the following ways: 
            - Chronologically (from past to present or present to past)
            - From simple to complex
            - From known to unknown (i.e., using a learner's previous experiences and knowledge to acquire new concepts)
            - From most frequently used (most familiar) to least frequently used
    - The <u>**Conclusion**</u> retraces the important elements of the lesson and relates them to the objective.
        - **This reinforces learning and improves retention of what has been learned**. 
        - New ideas should not be introduced in the conclusion because doing so at this point in the lesson will only confuse learners