## Training Delivery Methods

1) The modern training environment offers a host of presentation opportunities.
    - Effective instructors utilize the following methods by which conveys the information in the most effective situation.

2) **Lecture** methodology involves an instructor addressing a group of learners, who typically engage as mostly _silent participants_.
    - The _lecture_ is used primarily for:
        - _Introducing learners to new subject material_
        - _Summarizing ideas_
        - _Showing relationships between theory and practice_
        - _Reemphasizing main points_
    - Four types of _lecture_ methods:
        - The **illustrated talk**: in which the speaker relies heavily on visual aids to convey their ideas to the listeners
        - The **briefing** which the speaker presents a concise array of facts to the listeners, who do not expect elaboration or supporting material
        - The **formal speech**: which the speaker's purpose is to inform, persuade, or entertain
        - The **teaching lecture**: which the instructor must plan and deliver an oral presentation in a manner that helps the learners reach the desired learning outcomes.
    - One _advantage_ of a _teaching lecture_ is that the instructor can present _many_ ideas in a relatively _short time_. Facts and ideas that have been logically organized can be concisely presented in rapid sequence. 
        - Thus, a teaching lecture is the most _economical_ of all teaching methods in terms of the time required to present a given amount of material. 
    - One _disadvantage_ of a teaching lecture is that the instructor does not receive a direct _reaction (either words or actions)_ from the learners. 
        - Thus, the instructor must develop a keen perception for subtle responses from the class and must be able to interpret the meaning of these indirect reactions and adjust lessons accordingly. These reactions could be in the form of _facial expressions_, _manner of taking notes_, and _apparent interest or lack thereof_ in the lesson.
        - The instructor must recognize that **the lecture method is _least useful for evaluating learner performance_**. A distinguishable characteristic of an **informal lecture** is active participation from the learner. Usually in the form of _the learner asking questions_
    - The following four steps should be followed in **preparing a lecture**:
        - _Establish the objective and desired outcome_
        - _Research the subject_
        - _Organize the material_
        - _Plan productive classroom activities_
    - The teaching lecture is best delivered extemporaneously but using a written outline
        - Because the exact words used to express an idea are chosen at the moment of delivery, the lecture can be personalized or suited to the moment more easily than one that is read or spoken from memory.
    - In the teaching lecture, use simple rather than complex words whenever possible.
        - Picturesque slang and colloquialisms, _if they suit the subject_, can add _variety and vividness_ to a teaching lecture.
        - Errors in grammar and use of vulgarisms _detract_ from an instructor's _dignity_ and reflect upon the intelligence of the learners.

3) **Discussion** methodology modifies the traditional lecture format by actively integrating the learner into the process _using a lecture first and **then discussion**_
    - The goal is learner participation and developing higher order thinking skills (HOTS).
        - It relies on a focused discussion with exchange of ideas and active engagement in discussing the lecture.
        - **Everyone** has the opportunity to comment, listen, think, and participate.
            - _Participation **improves information recall**_.

4) The **Guided Discussion**: methodology of teaching is the reverse of the lecture method. The instructor **uses questions to guide and stimulate discussion among learners**.
    - The instructor _does not present new ideas_
        - The instructor should treat everyone impartially, _encourage questions_, and _exercise patience and tact_.
    - In the guided discussion, _**learning is achieved through the skillful use of questions**_
        - _Questions_ facilitate _discussion_, which in turn _develops an understanding of the subject_.
    - Questions used in a **guided discussion** can be broken into _several types_, each with its usefulness in the guided discussion:
        - **Overhead** - The question is directed to the entire group to stimulate thought and response from each group member.
        - **Rhetorical** - The question stimulates thought, but the instructor will answer it themselves. This is normally used in a _lecture_, not a _guided discussion_.
        - **Direct** - The question is addressed to an individual for a response.
        - **Reverse** - The instructor answers a learner's question by redirecting the question for that learner to provide the answer.
        - **Relay** - The reverse question is addressed to the entire group, not the individual.
    - In **preparing questions**, the instructor should remember that the purpose is to bring about discussion, not merely to get answers.
        - Lead-off questions should be open-ended; i.e., they should start with _"how"_ or _"why"_
        - Avoid questions that begin with _"what"_, _"when"_, or _"does"_ because they only require short, categorical answers such as "yes" or "no".
    - Each question, in order to be effective, should
        - Have a specific purpose
        - Be clear in meaning
        - Contain a single idea
        - Stimulate thought
        - Require definite answers, and
        - Relate to previously taught information.
    - When it appears the learners have adequately discussed the ideas that support a particular part of the lesson, the instructor should _summarize what they've accomplished_
        - This _interim summary_ is one of the most effective tools available to the instructor.
            - This summary can be made immediately after the discussion of each learning outcome.
            - It consolidates what learners learned, emphasizes how much they know already, and points out any aspects they missed. 
        - _Unless the learners have some knowledge to exchange with each other, they cannot reach the desired learning outcomes_.
            - Learners without some background in a subject should not be asked to discuss that subject
        - _Having a guided discussion is similar to planning a lecture_. The instructor should:
            - Select an appropriate topic
            - State the lesson objective
            - Conduct adequate research on the topic.
            - Organize main and supporting points.
            - Plan at least one lead-off question. 
        - Instructors should prepare learners for a guided discussion. Learners should be encouraged to accept responsibility for contributing to the discussion.
        - Guiding a discussion can be classified into three parts: **introduction**, **discussion**, and **conclusion**
            - The **introduction** should include an _attention_ element, a _motivation_ element, and an _overview_ of key points.
            - Discussion should be stated with a lead-off question. Depending on how difficult the question is, the learners may need more time to think about the answer. The instructor should listen attentively and use "how" and "why" to follow up.
            - A guided discussion should be concluded by summarizing the material. 

5) **Cooperative** or **Group Learning**: Is an instructional strategy used to organize learners into small groups so that they can work together to maximize their own and each other's learning. 
