## Electronic Learning (E-Learning)

1) E-Learning is defined as any type of education that involves an electronic component (e.g. Internet, stand-alone software, simulators, etc)
    - Advantages of e-learning include less time spent on instruction and higher levels of mastery and retention.
        - **E-Learning** often seems more enjoyable from the learner standpoint because it **allows learners to feel as if they are in control fo what they are learning and at a rate that is comfortable to them**.
    - **Distance Learning**: The _use of electronic media to deliver instruction when the instructor and learner are separated_, is another advantage of e-learning.
    - Improper or excessive use of e-learning should be avoided. **It will always be the responsibility of the instructor to monitor and oversee learner progress** and to intervene when necessary.
    - Limitations of e-learning include
        - _Lack of peer interaction and personal feedback_
        - _Lack of instructor control and oversight_
        - _Costs associated with equipment/programs_

2) **Computer-Assisted Learning (CAL)** is a specific form of e-learning that integrates a personal computer with multimedia software to create a training device.
    - The major advantage of CAL is that **it is interactive** in that the computer will respond in different ways **depending on learner input**.
        - Some of the more advanced CAL applications allow learners to progress through a series of interactive segments in which the presentation varies as a result of their responses. 
            - CAL responds quickly to learner input
            - **When CAL is combined with multimedia, _learners can control the pace of instruction_**
        - Other advantages of CAL include the fact that **_learners can progress at a rate that is comfortable for them and are often able to access material at locations and times convenient to them_**
        - Both initial and recurrent training can be accomplished with CAL
            - Aviation companies that incorporate CAL reduce the amount of manpower, and associated costs, needed to train employees
        - **CAL can be used to test a learner's achievement, compare results with past performance, and indicate a learner's weak or strong areas**.
            - EXAMPLE: In preparing for an FAA knowledge test, learners may use test prep software to practice tests, evaluate scores, and review missed questions.
        - **CAL should be thought of and used as a reference aid, not as the sole means of accomplishing a training program**.
        - Instructors should remain actively involved with learners using CAL by close supervision, questions, quizzes and guided discussions to constantly assess learner progress.

3) **Simulation, role playing, and video games** are other forms of e-learning that, while not thought of as a primary means of instruction, are still valuable tools for aviation training.
    - Many flight schools incorporate flight simulation into a learner's training regimen to have them **practice scenarios that would otherwise be unwise or unsafe to perform in an actual aircraft**.
    - Depending on the type of device, _use of flight simulators can be credited for actual flight time_.
