## Types of Practice

1) Skill retention depends on continued practice, although the [power law of practice](../2-Learning/2.9-Acquiring-Skill-Knowledge.md#power-law) raises a question of whether there is a point where continued practice no longer leads to improvement.
    - The answer is guided by _how well that practice is structured to genuinely impact retention results_. Three types of practice will yield particular results in acquiring skills.    
        - **Deliberate Practice**: means the learner practices specific areas for improvement, receiving specific feedback after practice. 
            - Learners _achieve better results if distractions are avoided_ during deliberate practice.
            - Feedback needed to correct learner performance should be brief and explicit. 
        - **Blocked Practice**: practicing the same drill until the movement becomes automatic.
            - Doing the same task over and over leads to better short-term performance but poorer long-term learning.
            - It tends to fool not only the learner but also the instructor into thinking the skills have been well learned.
        - **Random Practice**: mixes the skills to be acquired throughout the practice session.
            - This type of practice leads to better retention because, by performing a series of separate skills in a random order, the learner starts to recognize the similarities and differences of each skill, which makes the practice more meaningful.
            - The learner also is able to store the skill more effectively in long-term memory.