## Distractions, Interruptions, Fixation, and Inattention

1) Distractions are **momentary attention shifts caused by unexpected events and can be costly at any point, especially during the cognitive stage of learning**
    - A **distraction** is an _unexpected event that causes the learner's attention to be momentarily diverted_.
        - The learner needs to decide if that distraction warrants further attention or action on their part. 
        - Once decided, learners either refocus on their task or address the distraction.
    - **Interruptions**: are a significant source of errors. _Learners need to be aware of the potential for errors caused by interruptions and develop procedures for dealing with them_.
        - Interruptions can generally pose a greater risk than distractions as the learner _voluntarily suspends performance of one task in order to complete a different one in_.
        - EXAMPLE: A learner following a checklist in sequence is interrupted. Upon returning to the checklist, they erroneously pick up at a later point in the procedure, omitting one or more steps in the checklist items.
    - **Fixation** _occurs when a learner becomes absorbed in performing one task to the exclusion of other tasks_. Instructors see many examples of this in learner performance.
        - **Fixation on a task is often a sign _that the task has not received enough practice in isolation_**. That is, the learner has not yet mastered the task well enough to perform it in addition to other tasks. 
        - Fixation can happen even when individual skills have been reasonably mastered, when learners _have not yet learned the importance of managing their own limited attentional resources_. 
        - EXAMPLE: Beginning instrument pilots characteristically fixate on particular instruments, attempting to control one aspect of their performance while other aspects deteriorate. 
        - Learners who appear to look at one instrument for an extended period of time may have a problem with fixation.
    - **Inattention**: occurs _when a learner fails to pay attention to a task that is important_. 
        - While inattention can be a natural byproduct of fixation, wherein learners fixate on one task, becoming too busy to attend to other tasks, it also occurs when learners are not busy, through boredom or thinking a task does not deserve attention.
            - Inattention is difficult to eliminate through training and practice.
            - _Humans typically perform poorly when placed in the role of passive monitor_
            - Attention and focus _degrade quickly_ when pilots are tasked to _passively monitor gauges_, _automated systems_, etc. 
            - **Encourage active engagements through affirmative flight deck actions and structured operational flows with this in mind**.
        - Research suggests that the more reliable a system becomes, the poorer the human performance becomes at the monitoring task.
        - Alert the learner to the problem and help develop habits that keep their attention focussed.
        - Learners whose gaze is never directed toward engine instruments may have a problem with inattention _(You should occasionally scan your engine parameters even during a boring cruise, etc)_
