## Transfer of Learning
1) The learner may be either aided or hindered by things learned previously
    - This process is called transfer of learning.
        - **Positive transfer** occurs when the learning of one maneuver aids in learning another. EXAMPLE: Flying rectangular patterns to aid in flying traffic patterns.
        - **Negative transfer** occurs when a performance of a maneuver interferes with the learning of another maneuver. EXAMPLE: Trying ot steer a taxiing plane with the control yoke the way one drives a car. Negative transfer thus agrees with the interference theory of forgetting.
    - Habit formation
        - **The formation of correct habit patterns from the beginning of any learning process is essential to further learning and for correct performance after the completion of training**. 
        - Everything from intricate cognitive processes to simple motor skills depends on what the learner already knows and how that knowledge can be applied in the present.
        - By making certain the learner understands that what is learned can be applied to other situations, the instructor helps facilitate a positive transfer of learning.
            - This is the basic reason for the _building-block technique of instruction_ in which each simple task is performed acceptably and correctly before the next learning task is introduced.
            - The introduction of instruction in more advanced and complex operations before the initial instruction has been mastered leads to the development of poor habit patterns in the elements of performance.
        - Understanding Affects Memory
            - _The more deeply humans think about what they have learned, the more likely they are able to retrieve that knowledge later_
            - The effects of _depth of processing_ on memory are quite powerful and result from even the simplest attempts to elaborate on what has been learned.