## Learning Theory as it Applies to Ground and Flight Instruction

1) Learning theory helps to _explain the acquisition of skills, knowledge, and attitudes_.
    - Primary learning theories include:
        1) **Classical Conditioning**
            - Learning that occurs when a **neutral stimulus** like a stall horn (which by itself has no meaining at all) is **repeatedly paired with** a **natural stimulus** (the aerodynamic stall, something to be avoided / feared) which over time produces a **conditioned stimulus** for the pilot who now associates the stall horn with an impending aerodynamic stall. 
        2) **Operant Conditioning**
            - Similar to Classical Conditioning, except the association is made between the **behavior** and it's **consequences** or **outcome**. 
            - Through operant conditioning, a pilot learns that correct actions such as maintaining proper angle of attack or executing proper stall recovery techniques lead to positive outcomes like avoiding loss of control, minimizing altitude loss, and receiving instructor reinforcement.
        3) **Social Learning**
            - Learning is **done by observation** (4 stages listed below)
                - **Attention**: The learner's ability to pay attention to others around them in order to learn.
                - **Retention**: The ability to repeat a behavior that was once before (or more) observed.
                - **Reproduction**: The act of reproducing a previously observed behavior.
                - **Motivation**: The reason behind a learner reproducing an observed behavior.

2) **Behaviorism** explains human behavior **_entirely_ in terms of observable and measurable responses to stimuli**
    - Admittedly learning is more complex than merely response to stimuli, Behaviorism posits that behavior is largely conditioned mainly by events in the environment around them, and thus _can be predicted based on past rewards and punishments_. 
    - Often called the 'carrot(reward) and stick(punishment) approach to learning.
    - For the CFI, behaviorism stresses the importance of rewarding or positively reinforcing certain behaviors of the learner, thereby shaping and controlling what is learned.

3) **Cognitive Theory** _focuses on what is going on inside the mind_
    - **Cognition** refers to _the overall mental process involved in thinking, understanding, and learning_.
        - Intellectual activities like problem solving, decision making, awareness, etc
    - Learning is a **change in the way the learner thinks, understands or feels**, and not merely a change in the behavior alone
    - Cognitive theory has shaped both information processing theory and constructivism
    1) **Information Processing Theory**: Applies a computer system model to human learning
        - The human brain processes incoming information, stores and retrieves it, and generates responses to the information.
        - Involves a number of cognitive processes including gathering of information, representing the info _(encoding)_, retaining and retrieving.
    2) **Constructivism**: A learning philosophy _emphasizing the **construction** or **building** that goes on during the learning process._
        - Learners do not acquire knowledge and skills passively. **They actively build or construct them based on their experiences**
        - Constructivism creates an environment of learning that is _learner-centered, where they assume responsibility for their own learning_. 