## Perceptions and Insight

1) **Perceiving** is a process that involves _more_ than the mere reception of stimuli from the five senses.
    - Perceptions **result when the person gives meaning to the sensations being experienced**. Thus, learning is a function of perception(s)
        - New learners tend to be overwhelmed by stimuli, often causing focus to be placed on meaningless or insignificant things or events, missing out on key information. The instructor's job is to _direct new learners' perceptions_ so that key information is recognized, retained, and given meaning.
    - Time and the right opportunity are required to perceive.
        - Properly planning a lesson syllabus allows opportune times for key perceptions to occur.
    - People have a basic need to maintain, enhance, preserve and perpetuate the organized self.
        - Thus, all perceptions are affected by this basic need.
    - **Self-Concept**, or _self-image_, has a great influence on the total perceptual process
        - Self-concept is how one pictures oneself.
            - Self-concept can be described in terms such as "confident" or "insecure".
            - _"Confident"_ denotes a favorable view of self, or positive self-concept.
            - _"Insecure"_ denotes an unfavorable view of self, or negative self-concept.
        - _These are powerful determinants in learning_
            - Self-concept has a great influence on the total perceptual process.
        - If a learner's experiences tend to support a favorable self-image, the learner tends to remain receptive to subsequent experiences. These learners show less defensiveness, and are more open and receptive to new experiences, instructions and demonstrations.
        - Negative self-concept contributes most to a learner's failure to remain receptive to new experiences and creates a tendency to reject additional training.
        - **Instructors must be able to detect negative self-image in their learners and strive to prevent these feelings from undermining the instructional process**.
            - Instructors can grow the development of insights by helping the learner acquire and maintain a favorable self-concept
                - _The way instructors carry themselves, their own positive attitudes, and the manner in which they instruct can help their learners achieve this positive self-concept.
                - EXAMPLE: During a discovery flight with a potential learner, the instructor does not focus on emergency procedures or potential hazards to flight, but instead emphasizes how smooth, efficient, and enjoyable flying can be. 
        - **Fear** or the element of threat _**narrows the learner's perceptual field**_.
            - The resulting anxiety may limit a person's ability to learn from perceptions.

2) **Insight** occurs when associated perceptions are grouped into meaningful wholes, i.e. when one "gets the whole picture" _(a.k.a. the lightbulb moment)_
    - Evoking insights is the instructor's major responsibility.
    - Instruction speeds the learning process by teaching the relationship of perceptions as they occur, thus promoting the development of insights by learners.
    - An instructor can help develop learner insights by _providing a secure and nonthreatening environment in which to learn_