## Laws of Learning

1) The "laws of learning" that apply to the learning process are fundamental principles that help shape effective teaching and learning experiences.
2) The laws of learning provide insight into effective teaching and learning experiences.
    - The **principle of readiness** states that if a learner is ready to learn and has a strong purpose and clear objective, with a well-fixed reason for learning, they will make more progress than if they lack motivation. Readiness implies _single-mindedness_
        - Readiness to learn also involves what is called the _"teachable moment"_, a moment of educational opportunity when a person is particularly responsive to being taught something. 
    - The **principle of exercise** states that those things most often repeated are best remembered or performed.
        - The basis of this principle is to provide opportunities for a learner to practice and then direct this process toward a goal.
        - Connections are strengthened with practice and weakened when practice is discontinued, reflecting the adage "use it or lose it."
    - The **principle of effect** relates to the _emotional reaction_ of the learner.
        - Learning is _strengthened_ when accompanied by a pleasant or satisfying feeling.
        - Learning is _weakened_ when associated with an unpleasant feeling. 
        - Therefore, positive training experiences are more likely to lead to success and motivate the learner, while negative training experiences might stimulate forgetfulness or avoidance.
    - The **principle of primacy** states that those things learned first often create a strong, almost unshakable impression. _This is the reason an instructor needs to teach correctly the first time_.
        - This principle means that _bad habits learned early are hard to break_. Instructors must thus insist on correct performance from the outset of maneuvers.
    - The **principle of intensity** states _that a vivid, dramatic, or exciting experience teaches more than a routine or boring experience_. 
        - This implies that a learner will learn more from the real thing than from a substitute. 
    - The **principle of recency** states that the things most recently learned are best remembered.
        - Instructors recognize the principle of recency when they determine the sequence of lectures within a course of instruction.
        - Instructors may repeat, restate, or reemphasize important points at the end of a lesson to help learners remember them. 