## Characteristics of Learning

1) Experiences can be created by instructors through understanding the characteristics of learning to affect behavior and drive learning.
    - Learning is **purposeful**
        - Learners learn from any activity that tends to further their goals. 
        - The individual needs and attitudes of learners may determine what they learns as much as what the instructor is trying to teach.
        - Instructors relating new learning toward the individual's goals is of paramount importance.
    - Learning is a result of **experience**
        - In the end learning is a personal process, the instructor cannot do it for the learner, they can only learn through their own experience.
        - Experiences that challenge the learner by involving feelings, thoughts, and past memories or experiences are far more robust than just rote memorization.
        - Learning is _a physical skill_ that requires actual experience in performing that skill.
        - Mental habits are also learned through practice.
    - Learning is **multifaceted**
        - Individuals learn much more than expected if they fully exercise their minds and feelings _(synergistic)_
        - Learning process may include verbal, conceptual, perceptual, emotional and problem-solving elements all taking place at once.
        - Incidental learning is when the learner learns other useful things along with the subject being taught and can have a significant impact on total development.
    - Learning is an **active process**
        - Learners don't soak up knowledge like a sponge absorbs water, it's something that must be practiced at and worked toward
        - Instructors shouldn't assume the learner remembers something just because they were in a classroom or aircraft when the material was presented.
        - Instructors also shouldn't assume learners can apply what they know simply because they can quote the correct answer verbatim
        - For effective knowledge transfer, learners need to react and respond.
    - Learning is the result of comparing new information with preexisting information and integrating it into meaningful connections.
    - Learning occurs when there is a **permanent change in cognition and behavior resulting from an experience**. 