## Purpose and Characteristics of Effective Assessment

1) No instructor skill **is more important than the ability to _analyze_, _appraise_, and _judge_ learner performance**
    - Assessment is an **essential** and **continuous** component of the teaching and learning process.
        - **Assessment**: Is the process of gathering measurable information to meet evaluation needs. It involves judgement by the instructor and collaboration with the learner during the evaluation stage.
        - Instructors continuously evaluate learner performance in order to provide _guidance_, _suggestions for improvement_, and _positive reinforcement_.
        - To **_enhance a learner's acceptance of further instruction_, the instructor should keep the learner informed of the progress made**
            - This will help **minimize** learner **frustrations**, which will keep the learner motivated to learn.
        - Assessment helps the instructor _see where more emphasis is needed_ and _determine the readiness of the learner to move forward_
    - In order to provide direction and increase learner performance, **assessments must be factual and must be aligned with the completion standards of the lesson**

2) An **assessment should be**:
    - **Objective**
        - An effective assessment is focused on learner performance and **should not** reflect the _personal opinions_, _likes_, _dislikes_, and _biases_ of the instructor.
        - It must be honest and **based on the performance as it was, not as it could have been**.
    - **Flexible**
        - The instructor must fit the tone, technique, and content of the critique to the occasion and the learner
        - Evaluate the entire performance in the context it was accomplished and allow for variables, whether they occur on the part of the learner or from factors outside the learner's control.
            - It should satisfy the requirements of the moment
    - **Acceptable**
        - Before learners willingly accept their instructor's assessment, **they must first willingly accept the instructor**. 
        - Learners must **have confidence** in the instructor's **qualifications**, **teaching ability**, **sincerity**, **competence**, and **authority**
            - An instructor's manner, attitude, and familiarity with the subject at hand does much to serve this purpose.
        - Instructors cannot rely solely on their position to make an assessment acceptable to their learners _(has to be earned)_
        