## Traditional Assessments

1) **Traditional Assessment** often involves written testing and is more likely to be used to evaluate a learner's progress at the _rote_ level of learning.
    - Traditional assessments are **formal in nature**
        - In a traditional assessment, one single answer will be correct (i.e. multiple choice or true/false)
        - EXAMPLE: The FAA knowledge test for a given certificate or rating is a traditional assessment. 
    - Written test questions fall into two general categories: **supply-type** and **selection-type**
    - **Supply-type** questions require the learner to furnish a response in the form of a word, sentence, or paragraph
        - Supply-type test items
            - **Require learners to organize their thoughts and ideas**
            - **Demand the ability to express ideas**
                - This makes them valuable in measuring the learner's generalized understanding of a subject
            - **Are subjective**
                - Thus, their main disadvantage is that they cannot be graded uniformly. The same test graded by different instructors probably would be assigned different scores.
            - **Take longer for learners to answer and for instructors to grade, which is a disadvantage**
    - **Selection-type** questions include items for which two or more alternative responses are provided and there is only one single correct response.
        - Selection-type test items
            - **Are highly objective**
                - Thus they are graded _uniformly_ regardless of the learner or grader
            - **Allow direct comparison of learners' accomplishments**. For example it's possible to compare learner performance...
                - Within the same class
                - Between classes, and
                - Under different instructors.
            - True/false, multiple-choice, and matching type questions are prime examples.
        - **True/False** test items are well adapted to the testing of knowledge of facts and detail, especially when there are only two possible answers.
            - The chief disadvantage of the true/false test item is it creates the greatest probability of _guessing_ because the learner has a 50% chance of guessing correctly.

